
With multiple courses to keep track of and deadlines to remember, school can be a hectic and stressful time for students. It can be difficult for students to understand how their workload is distributed during the semester and when their assessments are due. Traditional semester tracking tools, such as basic to-do lists or calendar apps, frequently fall short of providing a complete picture of the workload. Our app, Semtrack, aims to change that by providing a unique and innovative way for students to manage their semesters.


Semtrack analyzes the student data in order to suggest which assessments you should work on and at which times. These suggestions may depend on multiple factors such as assessment weight, due date, your current grade in the course and your goal for the course. Additionally, Semtrack will provide a visual graph of the student's workload during the entire semester. This will allow the student to identify heavy workload weeks and will let them make informed decisions and plans based on this data. Lastly, Semtrack will enable users to track their progress on assignments, track their grades, and receive reminders of upcoming deadlines based on the importance of the assessment and the anticipated length of the project.

Here is an ideal scenario for this application. Suppose a student is four weeks into their course, and midterms are just around the corner. It may be a low week for them; not many assignments or tasks, and things feel like they're moving at a reasonable speed with their to-do list by their side for the week. Without knowledge, two weeks from now is about to hit them like a train, two tests, an assignment due at the end of their week and the usual weekly deadlines. Luckily for this student, they have their information loaded into Semtrack, an intelligent task and deadline management tool. It's notifying them of two weeks from now, and the student picks up, and they begin working on the two assessments ahead of time. What would have been a train wreck now turns into a stress-free study session with their friends. And their weekly to-do list has now been replaced with a much more intelligent friend, Semtrack.

In our market research, we identified competitors such as myHomework and iStudiezPro, which are apps also utilized by students to track tasks and deadlines during the semester. These apps typically offer a combination of generic to-do lists and calendar features. Semtrack aims to stand out from these competitors by utilizing our unique perspective as fellow students to design an app that genuinely addresses the needs of students. One key area where we differentiate ourselves from our competitors is our ability to help students visualize their long-term workload and make decisions based on that. Our app also allows students to see upcoming busy weeks with multiple deadlines and gives reminders accordingly, providing insight and support not found in other semester-tracking apps.

Since Semtrack boasts multiple unique features that are not included in other study/planner apps and which significantly simplify the planning process, Semtrack will be able to stand out among competitors. For revenue, we have multiple approaches we can take. The first is a monthly subscription with a semester-long free trial. This way, users are able to see if the app is a good fit for them and to recognize the app’s full potential. This would be policed by the user entering their payment information upon downloading the app, to avoid a user making multiple accounts to get multiple free trials. The second approach is to lock certain features behind a paywall. This would not include the semester visualization features, as those are some of the main features of our app which heavily contribute to its uniqueness among other competitors on the market. Another approach is to charge extra to keep user data for long-term, such as keeping user data for over a semester. These three approaches all walk the line between inconveniencing free users and avoiding making our app unusable or frustrating to use.